@document.meta
title: Arabica Recipes
authors: @pdewey.com
created: 03/17/26
categories: [spec, lexicon]
@end

* Recipe Records

** Motivation

   When inputting a new brew, it is tedious to type out all the fields when many
   of them are always the same. A "recipe" is supposed to solve parts of this
   tedium by auto-filling a number of the fields (most notably pours; count,
   water amount, and time). A user should be able to create/save a recipe from
   one of their brews (or maybe another users brews as well?).

   Recipes are also have potential as a social construct that can be easily
   shared around and used. Saving another users recipe is something I would like
   to build around in the future. Analytics would also be super cool for
   recipes.

** Lexicon Fields

   - `name` (string)
   - `brewerRef` (ref)
   - `brewerType` (string)
   - `coffeeAmount` (int -- should be * 10 but isn't)
   - `waterAmount` (int * 10)
   - `pours` (array of `#pour`) (references {*** Pour Schema})`
   - `notes`: (string) reeform description field

   It would probably also make sense to ceraete a `brewRef` field that draws a
   link to the brew that the original version of the recipe was created from.

*** Pour Schema

    Both required:
    - `waterAmount` (int - multiplied by 10)
    - `timeSeconds` (int)

** Implementation

   - Once selected, a recipe should autofill all non-null fields in the brew
   - A user should be able to save a recipe off of any brew (by them or by
     another user)
   - Users should be able to create new recipes from scratch (requires new modal
     and view page)

** Debugging and Changes

*** Explore page

    The explore page filters are a bit weird, and values between certain ones
    seem a bit wonky (i.e. a 15g dose brew shows up in single, small, and large
    filters when it should probably only show up in the single cup one (small
    should probably be 12 or less? -- not sure about the exact values).

    Recipes should also show the profile picture and username of the creator of
    the recipe.

    Some recipe fields should be interpolated from other fields when missing
    (i.e. water amount and ratio, from pours and coffee amount. Ratio may be
    transitive)

    "Search recipes" entry doesn't currently work. This should be retooled to
    show a list of matches in the same style as login handle entry, and either
    show just the user's recipes, or maybe show suggested recipes from other
    users (not sure how they would be rated though, since that would probably
    need to be part of this)

** Open Questions

   For links between a brew and recipe, which should have the optional ref?
   Probably brew, but should a recipe contain a ref to the original brew that it
   /may/ have been saved from.

** Alternate Recipe Design

   Recipes only contain minimal structure and are more freeform, (build a custom
   recipe), with just a content field in the lexicon that contains arbitrary
   content that can be customized as desired. This leads to more utility that
   what just a pourover recipe provides (e.g. maybe milk drink stuff for
   espresso?).

   This would require some sort of recipe customizer page that allows adding
   arbitrary key-value pairs (or pours/refs to gear/beans).
